(PT-789) Add documentation for config policies and `policy` subcommands (#3042)
puppetlabs/bolt: documentation/experimental_features.md

```

### Applying policies to targets

Applying policies is similar to [applying Puppet
code](https://puppet.com/docs/bolt/latest/applying_manifest_blocks.html), with
the addition that you can apply one or more policies at a time. The Bolt
commands for applying policies accept a single policy name or a comma-separated
list of policy names to apply to a list of one or more targets. 

For example, to apply both `myproject::admin` and `myproject::sshkeys` policies
to a target:

* _*nix shell command_
  ```
  bolt policy apply myproject::admin,myproject::sshkeys -t mytarget                                
  ```

* _PowerShell cmdlet_
  ```
  Invoke-BoltPolicy -Name myproject::admin,myproject::sshkeys -Targets mytarget
  ```

Example output:
```
Starting: install puppet and gather facts on mytarget
Finished: install puppet and gather facts with 0 failures in 6.51 sec
Starting: apply catalog on mytarget
Started on mytarget...
Finished on mytarget:
  changed: 1, failed: 0, unchanged: 0 skipped: 0, noop: 0
Finished: apply catalog with 0 failures in 8.59 sec
Successful on 1 target: mytarget
Ran on 1 target in 15.2 sec
```

> Before applying policies, Bolt installs the `puppet-agent` package and collects

Reviewer: Would it be work linking to documentation about the nuances of apply_prep here (just blanket saying it installs the agent seems somewhat inaccurate and scary) Maybe if we dont want to find a link just say something like `Bolt ensures the puppet-agent packages is available on the target and collects facts`?

Reviewer 2: How does this sound?
> Before applying policies, Bolt installs uses the `apply_prep` function to collect 
  facts and ensure that the `puppet-agent` package is available on each target.
  For more information on how Bolt uses `apply_prep`, see
  [Applying manifest blocks]applying_manifest_blocks.md#applying-manifest-blocks-from-a-puppet-plan

Author: That sounds good to me, does this check out with you @beechtom? I believe we can go ahead and merge this after this change unless @lucywyman wants to add anything.

Reviewer 3: @rileynewton Looks good to me 👍 Before merging you'll need to squash all your commits down to a single commit.

eventually stabilized in future releases. While a feature is experimental, its
API might change, requiring the user to update their code or configuration. The
Bolt team attempts to make these changes painless by providing useful warnings
around breaking behavior where possible.

## Configuration policies and the policy command

This feature was introduced in [Bolt 3.21.0](). 

### What are policies?

Configuration policies, or policies for short, are public classes that can be
applied directly to one or more targets. Policies are Puppet code stored in the
`manifests/` directory of modules on the modulepath. They can be applied
directly to targets just like other Puppet code.

### Policies in a Bolt project's configuration file

The project configuration file, `bolt-project.yaml`, supports a `policies` key
which lists the policies available to a project. A Puppet class becomes a policy
when it's listed under the `policies` key, and if the `policies` key is not
configured then no policies will be available for Bolt to apply.

Policies may be manually added to the `policies` key in `bolt-project.yaml` or
managed via Bolt commands. This key supports glob pattern for easily listing

> multiple policies, i.e. boltproject::* includes boltproject::admin and
> boltproject::sshkeys policies.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
multiple policies. For example, `bolt::project::*` includes `bolt::project::admin` and
`bolt::project::sshkeys` policies.
```

We should also make sure the doc is consistent between `boltproject` and `bolt::project` prefixes.

Author: Missed this, thanks.

The following configuration file makes the `bolt::project::admin` and
`bolt::project::sshkeys` policies available to the project:
```
---
name: bolt
policies:
- bolt::project::admin
- bolt::project::sshkeys
```

### Creating new policies 

You can use Bolt to create a new policy in your project and add it to the
`policies` key in your project configuration. For example, to create a new
project-level policy named `bolt::project::user`, run:

* _*nix shell command_
  ```
  bolt policy new bolt::project::user
  ```

* _PowerShell cmdlet_
  ```
  New-BoltPolicy bolt::project::user
  ```

An empty class is created in the project's `manifests/` directory that you can
then populate.

Example output:
```
Created policy 'bolt::project::user' at '/Users/puppet.user/bolt/manifests/project/user.pp'
```

> > Policy names must follow [class naming
> conventions](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/7/lang_reserved.html#classes-and-defined-resource-type-names).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Policy names must follow [class naming
conventions](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/7/lang_reserved.html#classes-and-defined-resource-type-names).
```

Hm, I think this might work better as the first line at line 60.

Policies can also be created manually by:

1. Adding the file to a module's or project's `manifests/` directory.
2. Modifying the project's `bolt-project.yaml` to include the policy in the
   `policies` key.

### Listing available policies

> You can list available policies using `bolt policy show`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can list available policies for the project:
```

* _*nix shell command_ 
  ```
  bolt policy show 
  ```

* _PowerShell cmdlet_ 
  ``` 
  Get-BoltPolicy 
  ```

Example output:
```
Policies
  bolt::project::admin
  bolt::project::sshkeys

Modulepath
  /Users/puppet.user/bolt/modules:/Users/puppet.user/bolt/.modules
```

### Applying policies to targets

Applying policies is very similar to [applying Puppet
code](https://puppet.com/docs/bolt/latest/applying_manifest_blocks.html) with
`bolt apply`, with the addition that `bolt policy apply` allows you to apply one
or more policies at a time. `bolt policy apply` accepts a comma-separated list
of policy names to apply, or a single policy name to apply to a list of one or
more targets. 

For example, to apply both `bolt::project::admin` and `bolt::project::sshkeys`
policies to a target:

* _*nix shell command_
  ```
  bolt policy apply bolt::project::admin,bolt::project::sshkeys -t mytarget                                
  ```

* _PowerShell cmdlet_
  ```

>   Invoke-BoltPolicy bolt::project::admin,bolt::project::sshkeys -t mytarget

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Invoke-BoltPolicy -Name bolt::project::admin,bolt::project::sshkeys -Targets mytarget
```

## Configuration policies and the policy command

This feature was introduced in [Bolt 3.21.0](). 

### What are policies?

Configuration policies, or policies for short, are public classes that can be
applied directly to one or more targets. Policies are Puppet code stored in the
`manifests/` directory of modules on the modulepath. They can be applied
directly to targets just like other Puppet code.

### Policies in a Bolt project's configuration file

The project configuration file, `bolt-project.yaml`, supports a `policies` key
which lists the policies available to a project. A Puppet class becomes a policy
when it's listed under the `policies` key, and if the `policies` key is not
configured then no policies will be available for Bolt to apply.

Policies may be manually added to the `policies` key in `bolt-project.yaml` or
managed via Bolt commands. This key supports glob pattern for easily listing
multiple policies. For example, `bolt::project::*` includes
`bolt::project::admin` and `bolt::project::sshkeys` policies.

The following configuration file makes the `bolt::project::admin` and
`bolt::project::sshkeys` policies available to the project:
```
---

> name: bolt

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# bolt-project.yaml
name: myproject
```
Just reiterating for the user where the config file is. Also, I think using `bolt` as the project name might be a tad confusing, so changing that to something more generic

Author: I thought it was a potentially confusing project name too, but @beechtom is this common Bolt convention to have the name be 'bolt'? With the current code, policy names always have to start with the project name, so I'd change the other references in the doc to "myproject::bolt::admin" or some other name in the middle.

Reviewer 3: There's really no convention for project names. I personally name mine `bolt`, but I think the rest of our docs use `myproject` typically so I think it makes sense to do the same here.

There's also no need to have three name segments, so we could potentially simplify the policy names to `myproject::admin`, etc.

policies:
- bolt::project::admin
- bolt::project::sshkeys
```

### Creating new policies 

You can use Bolt to create a new policy in your project and add it to the
`policies` key in your project configuration. For example, to create a new
project-level policy named `bolt::project::user`, run:

* _*nix shell command_
  ```
  bolt policy new bolt::project::user
  ```

* _PowerShell cmdlet_
  ```
  New-BoltPolicy -Name bolt::project::user
  ```

> Policy names must follow [class naming
> conventions](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/7/lang_reserved.html#classes-and-defined-resource-type-names).
> An empty class is created in the project's `manifests/` directory that you can
> then populate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bolt creates an empty class in the project's `manifests/` directory that you can
populate with code. Policy names must follow [class naming
conventions](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/7/lang_reserved.html#classes-and-defined-resource-type-names).

```

Example output:
```
Created policy 'bolt::project::user' at '/Users/puppet.user/bolt/manifests/project/user.pp'
```

> Policies can also be created manually by:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create policies manually by:
```

1. Adding the file to a module's or project's `manifests/` directory.
2. Modifying the project's `bolt-project.yaml` to include the policy in the
   `policies` key.

### Listing available policies

You can list available policies for the project:

* _*nix shell command_ 
  ```
  bolt policy show 
  ```

* _PowerShell cmdlet_ 
  ``` 
  Get-BoltPolicy 
  ```

Example output:
```
Policies
  bolt::project::admin
  bolt::project::sshkeys

Modulepath
  /Users/puppet.user/bolt/modules:/Users/puppet.user/bolt/.modules
```

### Applying policies to targets

> Applying policies is very similar to [applying Puppet
> code](https://puppet.com/docs/bolt/latest/applying_manifest_blocks.html) with
> `bolt apply`, with the addition that `bolt policy apply` allows you to apply one
> or more policies at a time. `bolt policy apply` accepts a comma-separated list
> of policy names to apply, or a single policy name to apply to a list of one or
> more targets. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Applying policies is similar to [applying Puppet
code](https://puppet.com/docs/bolt/latest/applying_manifest_blocks.html), 
with the addition that you can apply one or more policies at a time. The Bolt 
commands for applying policies accept a single policy name or a 
comma-separated list of policy names to apply to a list of one or more targets. 
```

For example, to apply both `bolt::project::admin` and `bolt::project::sshkeys`
policies to a target:

* _*nix shell command_
  ```
  bolt policy apply bolt::project::admin,bolt::project::sshkeys -t mytarget                                
  ```

* _PowerShell cmdlet_
  ```
  Invoke-BoltPolicy -Name bolt::project::admin,bolt::project::sshkeys -Targets mytarget
  ```

Example output:
```
Starting: install puppet and gather facts on mytarget
Finished: install puppet and gather facts with 0 failures in 6.51 sec
Starting: apply catalog on mytarget
Started on mytarget...
Finished on mytarget:
  changed: 1, failed: 0, unchanged: 0 skipped: 0, noop: 0
Finished: apply catalog with 0 failures in 8.59 sec
Successful on 1 target: mytarget
Ran on 1 target in 15.2 sec
```

> Before applying policies, Bolt will install the puppet-agent package and collect
> facts from each target. Under the hood, Bolt creates a single line of Puppet
> code `include <POLICIES>` that will be compiled and applied to the provided
> targets, and will log that code at the debug level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before applying policies, Bolt installs the `puppet-agent` package and collects
facts from each target. Bolt creates a single line of Puppet code to compile 
and apply to the provided targets. This line of code includes the syntax
`include <POLICIES>` and Bolt logs the line at the debug level.
```

### Policies in Bolt project yaml

A Bolt project's configuration file `bolt-project.yaml` has a `policies` key
which lists the policies available to a project. A Puppet class becomes a policy
when it's listed under the `policies` key, and if the `policies` key is empty
then no policies will be available for Bolt to apply.

Policies may be manually added to the `policies` key in `bolt-project.yaml` or
managed via Bolt commands.

Example bolt-project.yaml
```
---
name: boltproject
modules: []
policies:
- boltproject::admin
- boltproject::sshkeys
```

### Policy management overview

Policies can be managed through the `policy` command, with `apply`, `new` and
`show` subcommands or the corresponding Powershell cmdlets `Invoke-BoltPolicy`,
`Get-BoltPolicy`, and `New-BoltPolicy`. Use '-h' with any of the policy
subcommands for more detail or `Get-Help` followed by any Powershell cmdlet
name.

#### Creating new policies 
> Policy names must follow [class naming
> conventions](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/7/lang_reserved.html#classes-and-defined-resource-type-names).

> Policy names must also be in the form `<PROJECT NAME>::<POLICY NAME>`. This is

> > referred to as `<POLICY NAME>` below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Policy names must follow [class naming
conventions](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/7/lang_reserved.html#classes-and-defined-resource-type-names).
```

Policy names can have more than two name segments, so leave out the bit about it having to be in the form `<PROJECT NAME>::<POLICY NAME>`. If we want, we can add examples of valid and invalid policy names.

We should also move this bit down so it's under the example commands.

Author: Removed the name segments, put the policy name around the example commands, though its placing still seems awkward.

You can create a new policy with `bolt policy new <POLICY NAME>`, which performs
two actions for you:

1. `<POLICY NAME>` is added to the `policies` key in `bolt-project.yaml`.
2.  An empty class is created at `<PROJECT DIRECTORY>/manifests/<POLICY
    NAME>.pp` that you can then populate. Under the hood, Bolt creates a single
    line of Puppet code "include #{policies.join(,)}" that will be compiled and
    applied to the provided targets, and will log that code at the debug level.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, to create a new project-level policy named `bolt::project::user`, run:
```

Each of the examples should have a quick blurb about what it's doing.

Author: Covered the blurbs I think.

Bolt team attempts to make these changes painless by providing useful warnings
around breaking behavior where possible. 

> ## Configuration policies and `bolt policy` subcommand

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Configuration policies and the policy command
```

This feature was introduced in [Bolt 3.21.0](). 

> Configuration policies are public classes that can be assigned directly to one

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Configuration policies, or policies for short, are public classes that can be applied directly to one
```

Reviewer 4: Assigning policies to nodes in a way that persists beyond one application requires what we call a "classifier" or external node classifier, which is only going to exist in Cygnus, not Bolt.

> Configuration policies are public classes that can be assigned directly to one

Reviewer 4: I think it's important to include in this top paragraph that policies are only different from classes in that they are listed in `bolt-project.yaml` under the `policies` key. Something like:
```
Configuration policies are public classes that can be assigned directly to one or more nodes via the Bolt command line. A class becomes a policy when it's listed under the `policies` key in `bolt-project.yaml`, and if the `policies` key is empty then no policies will be available for Bolt to apply.
```

> or more nodes via the Bolt command line. Policies are Puppet code stored in .pp

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
or more nodes. Policies are Puppet code stored in the `manifests/` directory of modules on the modulepath.
```

> files.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

> Policies can be accessed through the `policy` subcommand, with `apply`, `new`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Policies can be managed through the `policy` subcommand, with `apply`, `new`
```

> and `show` options. The default location for a policy created through Bolt is

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
and `show` subcommands. The default location for a policy created through Bolt is
```

Author: Great, yeah I was being terse here.

`<Bolt project directory>/manifests/<policyname>.pp`. Bolt creates an empty
class to fill in with the desired configuration.

> Once a policy is created it can be applied to target nodes via `bolt policy

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can list available policies using `bolt policy show`, and apply them to targets using `bolt policy apply`.
```

apply` and available policies can be listed via `bolt policy show`.`bolt policy
apply` accepts a comma-separated list of policy names to apply, or a single
policy name to apply to a list of one or more targets. Use '-h' with any of the

> policy subcommand options for more detail.

Reviewer 4: "Bolt will create a single line of Puppet code `include #{policies.join(,)}` that will be compiled and applied to the provided targets, and will log that code at the debug level."
I think this will clarify some questions that people who are more experienced may have around how classes are applied, are they applied in order, etc.

A Bolt project's configuration file `bolt-project.yaml` also has a new
`policies` setting which lists the configuration policies available to a

> project. When not configured, the policies feature for a given project is

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
project. When not configured, no policies will be available to Bolt to be applied.
```
I mostly just don't want people to think they can't use `bolt policy new` in this case, since they can.

Bolt team attempts to make these changes painless by providing useful warnings
around breaking behavior where possible. 

## Configuration policies and the policy command

This feature was introduced in [Bolt 3.21.0](). 

### What are policies?

Configuration policies, or policies for short, are public classes that can be
applied directly to one or more nodes. Policies are Puppet code stored in the
`manifests/` directory of modules on the modulepath. They can be applied
directly to targets just like other Puppet code.

### Policies in a Bolt project's yaml

A Bolt project's configuration file `bolt-project.yaml` has a `policies` key
which lists the policies available to a project. When not configured, no
policies will be available to Bolt to be applied. A Puppet class becomes a
policy when it's listed under the `policies` key, and if the `policies` key is

> empty then no policies will be available for Bolt to apply.

Author: Made this eliminate redundancy change before review, changed language to 'not
configured' as suggested.

Policies may be manually added to the `policies` key in `bolt-project.yaml` or
managed via Bolt commands.

Example bolt-project.yaml
```
---
name: boltproject
modules: []
policies:
- boltproject::admin
- boltproject::sshkeys
```

### Policy management overview

Policies can be managed through the `policy` command, with `apply`, `new` and
`show` subcommands or the corresponding Powershell cmdlets `Invoke-BoltPolicy`,
`Get-BoltPolicy`, and `New-BoltPolicy`. Use '-h' with any of the policy
subcommands for more detail or `Get-Help` followed by any Powershell cmdlet

> name.

Author: I agree, not needed with the better structuring of sections, removed.

#### Creating new policies 
> Policy names must follow [class naming conventions](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/7/lang_reserved.html#classes-and-defined-resource-type-names).

You can create a new policy with `bolt policy new <POLICY NAME>`, which performs

> two actions for you:

Author: Emulated that structure.

> 1. `<PROJECT NAME>::<POLICY NAME>` is added to the `policies` key in `bolt-project.yaml`.

Author: Changed.

> 2.  An empty class is created at `<PROJECT DIRECTORY>/manifests/<POLICY
>     NAME>.pp` that you can then populate. Under the hood, Bolt creates a single
>     line of Puppet code "include #{policies.join(,)}" that will be compiled and
>     applied to the provided targets, and will log that code at the debug level.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2.  An empty class is created in the project's `manifests/` directory that you
    can then populate. Under the hood, Bolt creates a single
    line of Puppet code `include <POLICIES>` that will be compiled and
    applied to the provided targets, and will log that code at the debug level.
```

- Bolt will create a nested directory structure if the policy's name has more than two name segments, so that example path isn't accurate. Since Bolt displays the path to the file it creates, I don't think there's a need to document it here.
- We should avoid using Ruby code to tell users what is happening under the hood. I think the bit about what's happening under the hood should also move to the `policy apply` section.

Author: Made those changes, changed examples to using a nested structure as well which we may not want.

multiple policies, i.e. boltproject::* includes boltproject::admin and
boltproject::sshkeys policies.

The following configuration file makes the `bolt::project::admin` and
`bolt::project::sshkeys` policies available to the project:
```
---
name: bolt
policies:
- bolt::project::admin
- bolt::project::sshkeys
```

### Creating new policies 

You can use Bolt to create a new policy in your project and add it to the
`policies` key in your project configuration. For example, to create a new
project-level policy named `bolt::project::user`, run:

* _*nix shell command_
  ```
  bolt policy new bolt::project::user
  ```

* _PowerShell cmdlet_
  ```

>   New-BoltPolicy bolt::project::user

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  New-BoltPolicy -Name bolt::project::user
```

Author: Was going to ask about getting the Powershell scripts in case there was an added param like this. :)

Ran on 1 target in 15.2 sec
```

> Before applying policies, Bolt uses the apply_prep function to collect facts and
> ensure that the puppet-agent package is available on each target. For more
> information on how Bolt uses apply_prep, see [Applying manifest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before applying policies, Bolt uses the `apply_prep` function to collect facts and
ensure that the puppet-agent package is available on each target. For more
information on how Bolt uses `apply_prep`, see [Applying manifest
```
Do we generally use unformatted text when referencing functions?

Author: Doh, committing.
